

1.  What is the network?

According to Merriam Webster, Network is usually an informally interconnected group or association of different entities like a person, computers, radio stations, etc.

For example, Dominos has a network of 1232 branches across India. As the name suggests the computer network is a system of peripherals or computers interconnected with each other and has a standard communication channel established between them to exchange different types of information and data.

2. Why is the computer network so important?

Have you ever heard of the Internet or NET? I guess you have, as you are already reading this article on Interviewbit surfing through the internet. But, have you ever thought about the internet? The Internet is a network of a network connecting all different network-enabled devices which enable data and information sharing between them and that makes computer networks a core part of our life and technical interviews.

Below is the list of all commonly asked networking questions in technical interviews from basic to advanced level.

3. 
3. Explain LAN (Local Area Network)

LANs are widely used to connect computers/laptops and consumer electronics which enables them to share resources (e.g., printers, fax machines) and exchange information. When LANs are used by companies or organizations, they are called enterprise networks. There are two different types of LAN networks i.e. wireless LAN (no wires involved achieved using Wi-Fi) and wired LAN (achieved using LAN cable). Wireless LANs are very popular these days for places where installing wire is difficult. The below diagrams explain both wireless and wired LAN.
LAN (Local Area Network)
4.  Tell me something about VPN (Virtual Private Network)

VPN or the Virtual Private Network is a private WAN (Wide Area Network) built on the internet. It allows the creation of a secured tunnel (protected network) between
different networks using the internet (public network). By using the VPN, a client can connect to the organization’s network remotely. The below diagram shows an 
organizational WAN network over Australia created using VPN:

